# BindKraft 2.21.5 Release notes

This official release has been delayed because of other work and COVID-19 related time consuming events. At the time of the originally planned release data new features were required and adding them took precedence before making the release.

## Added gap cover feature in windows.

`BaseWindow.prototype.showTopMostFapCover()`/`BaseWindow.prototype.hideTopMostFapCover()` methods show white and almost invisible (opacity 0.01) cover div between the normal and top most windows children of the window on which the methods are called. This is intended as a way to prevent user from interacting with the normal windows and mimic modal behavior for the top most windows. Note that this will be fine as long as only one top most window is open. This is just an example usage - in general such a cover can naturally provide some cheap isolation between top most and normal windows for short or medium periods of time in variety of scenarios.

## Service fetcher

For those who prefer thinking in DI terms, this allows creation of class members that fetch a specific service internally. This is achieved through an initializer:

```Javascript
function MyClass() { /*code omited for brevity*/ }
MyClass.Inherit( /*code omited for brevity*/ );
...
MyClass.prototype.myapp = new InitializeFetcher("A reference to the app", MyAppClass);

// This can be used in methods of the class like:
this.myapp().someAppMethod(1,2,3);

```
Any service that can be found by using this.findService() can be set to the InitializeFetcher's second argument.

## Small additions and fixes

- Added `autolink` parameter in the pager control to remove the need to point data area events to it. When #autolink='1' is set the pager will automatically connect to the specified data area.

